Update KEP-3329 "Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs" (#3438)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-apps/3329-retriable-and-non-retriable-failures/README.md

  - `reason=`
- Retriable: Yes

##### Disconnected node when taint-manager is disabled

- Reproduction: Run kube-controller-manager with disabled taint-manager (with the

>   flag --enable-taint-manager=false). Then, run a job with a long-running pod and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  flag `--enable-taint-manager=false`). Then, run a job with a long-running pod and
```

This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

#### Failing delete after a condition is added

Here we consider a scenario when a component fails (for example its container
dies) between appending a pod condition and deleting the pod.

In particular, in case of Scheduler it is possible that it decides to preempt
a different pod the next time (or none). Then, this pod would be left with a
condition that the pod was preempted, when it actually wasn't. This in turn
could lead to inproper handling of the pod by the job controller.

One possible solution to this issue would be to introduce a controller in
kube-controller-manager that either completes a preemption (does a delete)
or removes the condition (or set it's status to false) if the condition
timestamp is old enough and there is no deletion timestamp.

We are going to re-evaluate the need for solving this issue and the solution
for Beta.

#### Marking pods as Failed

As indicated in by our experiments (see: [Disconnected node](#disconnected-node)

> and [Disconnected node when taint-manager is disabled](#disconnected-node-when-taint-manager-is-disabled))

Reviewer 2: We are getting rid of the ability to disable taint-manager, so this one is no longer a concern.

Author: Updated this section. Still it seems to me beneficial to leave the experiment results for this scenario to demonstrate we gave some thought to it.

This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

#### Failing delete after a condition is added

Here we consider a scenario when a component fails (for example its container
dies) between appending a pod condition and deleting the pod.

> In particular, in case of Scheduler it is possible that it decides to preempt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, scheduler can possibly decide to preempt
```

> a different pod the next time (or none). Then, this pod would be left with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a different pod the next time (or none). This would leave a pod with a
```

> condition that the pod was preempted, when it actually wasn't. This in turn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
condition that it was preempted, when it actually wasn't. This in turn
```

could lead to inproper handling of the pod by the job controller.

> One possible solution to this issue would be to introduce a controller in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One possible solution to this issue is to introduce a controller in
```

kube-controller-manager that either completes a preemption (does a delete)

> or removes the condition (or set it's status to false) if the condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or removes the condition (or set its status to false) if the condition
```

timestamp is old enough and there is no deletion timestamp.

We are going to re-evaluate the need for solving this issue and the solution

> for Beta.

Reviewer 2: We are doing this for alpha already, removing the condition

Author: Updated Graduation Criteria and the Note

#### Marking pods as Failed

> As indicated in by our experiments (see: [Disconnected node](#disconnected-node))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As indicated by our experiments (see: [Disconnected node](#disconnected-node))
```

a failed pod may get stuck in the `Running` phase when there is no kubelet

> working properly to change the phase. In particular, this happens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
working properly. In particular, this happens
```

> in case of orphaned pods which are deleted, by garbage-collector. Due to this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in case of orphaned pods which are deleted by garbage-collector. Due to this
```

issue the logic of detecting pod failures in job controller is more complex than
would be needed otherwise.

Notably, this issue affects also an analogous scenario in which the taint-manager
is disabled [Disconnected node when taint-manager is disabled](#disconnected-node-when-taint-manager-is-disabled).

> However, as disabling taint-manager is deprecated it is not a concern for this

Reviewer: Does it mean that we should wait for Beta or at least GA promotion after that deprecation is completed?

Author: It would be nice to deprecate disabling taint manager before Beta and it's already started: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/111411. However, I'm not sure if we need a formalized requirement for this feature, @alculquicondor ?

Reviewer 2: If there are no concerns or oppositions, the deprecation would complete in 1.26.

Reviewer: Call is out explicitly for GA promotion in that case.

KEP.

Setting the pod phase as `Failed` could be considered as a fix done as part of
implementing this KEP. On the other hand, raising this issue as a dedicated ticket
and PR could be also beneficial for minimizing the set of changes in this KEP.
Also, it would give more time for a proper review and cleanup of code complications
accumulated in job controller (and potentially other components).

> We are going to re-evaluate the decision for Beta.

Reviewer 2: We are already doing this for Alpha

Author: Updated

Author: Indeed, updated now

### New PodConditions

A new condition type, called `TargetedForDisruption`, is introduced to indicate
a pod failure caused by external disruption. In order to account for different

> reasons for pod termination we add the following reason fields based on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reasons for pod termination we add the following reason types based on the
```
since you're not adding fields, but rather new reason types, right?

- A scalability test to demonstrate the limited impact of the additional API call
  when terminating a Pod
- Re-evaluate modification to kubelet to send a dedicated condition when
  terminating a Pod, based on user feedback (see: [Termination initiated by Kubelet](#termination-initiated-by-kubelet))
- Re-evaluate supporting of `onExitCodes` when `restartPolicy=OnFailure` (see: [Relationship with Pod.spec.restartPolicy](#relationship-with-podspecrestartpolicy))
- Re-evaluate introduction of a generic opinionated condition type
  indicating that a pod should be retried (see: [Evolving condition types](#evolving-condition-types))
- Re-evaluate the solution for the issue of failing delete after successful
  appending o the pod condition
  (see: [Failing delete when after a condition is added](#failing-delete-after-a-condition-is-added))
- Re-evaluate the decision about marking pods as failed to prevent pods getting

>   stuck in the running phase (see: [Marking pods as Failed](marking-pods-as-failed))

Reviewer: :+1:

-->

- [x] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)

>   - Feature gate name: PodDisruptionConditions

Reviewer: This name might be confusing with PDBs, imo.

Author: What we define as a disruption is very close to the existing definition. With `TargetedForDisruption` we just standardize the way pods manifest disruption by the end state so that it is easy to setup the pod failure policy rules.

Reviewer 2: PDBs are GA, so I don't think this name is concerning.

Reviewer 2: Add the second feature gate

Author: Both gates are present listed in readme, adjusted indentention
